PR_DESCRIPTION.md, before:

# Pull Request: Comprehensive API Security Enhancements

## Summary
This PR implements comprehensive security enhancements for the Verinode API to protect against common web vulnerabilities and attacks, fully addressing issue #11.

## 🛡️ Security Features Implemented

### Rate Limiting
- **Multi-tier rate limiting** with different limits for API, auth, GraphQL, and file upload endpoints
- **IP-based tracking** with X-Forwarded-For support
- **Proper 429 responses** with retry information and rate limit headers
- **Configurable windows** and limits per endpoint type

### Input Validation & Sanitization
- **Custom validation system** without external dependencies
- **Built-in validation rules** for common fields (email, username, password)
- **Automatic request sanitization** for body, query, and parameters
- **Content-Type validation** and payload size limits (10MB default)

### CORS Configuration
- **Environment-specific policies** (development vs production)
- **Origin whitelisting** with configurable allowed domains
- **Strict CORS mode** for sensitive endpoints
- **Proper preflight handling**

### Security Headers
- **Comprehensive header set** including CSP, HSTS, XSS protection
- **Frame protection** with X-Frame-Options: DENY
- **Content-Type protection** with nosniff
- **Permissions policy** restricting browser features
- **Referrer policy** for privacy protection

### Request Logging & Monitoring
- **Security event detection** (XSS, SQL injection, suspicious patterns)
- **IP-based monitoring** and attack pattern recognition
- **Unique request tracking** with IDs for audit trails
- **Security alerting** for high-severity events
- **Configurable log retention** and rotation

### XSS & Injection Protection
- **XSS pattern detection** with comprehensive regex patterns
- **HTML sanitization** removing dangerous elements
- **SQL injection prevention** with character escaping
- **Output encoding** for all responses
- **Recursive object sanitization**

## 📁 Files Added/Modified

### New Security Middleware
- `src/middleware/rateLimiter.ts` - Advanced rate limiting implementation
- `src/middleware/inputValidation.ts` - Custom validation system
- `src/middleware/corsConfig.ts` - Environment-aware CORS policies
- `src/middleware/securityHeaders.ts` - Comprehensive security headers
- `src/middleware/requestLogger.ts` - Security monitoring and logging

### Security Utilities
- `src/utils/inputSanitization.ts` - Input cleaning and sanitization
- `src/utils/xssProtection.ts` - XSS detection and prevention

### Infrastructure & Configuration
- `config/securityConfig.js` - Centralized security configuration
- `scripts/securityAudit.js` - Automated security audit tool

### Integration & Testing
- `src/graphql/server.ts` - Updated with full security middleware stack
- `src/test/security.test.ts` - Comprehensive security test suite
- `package.json` - Added security scripts and test dependencies
- `docs/SECURITY.md` - Complete security documentation

## ✅ Acceptance Criteria Met

- [x] **Rate limiting**: Returns 429 status when limits exceeded
- [x] **Input validation**: Malicious input is sanitized and rejected  
- [x] **CORS policy**: Properly enforced based on environment
- [x] **Security headers**: All recommended headers present
- [x] **Attack detection**: Logged and blocked automatically
- [x] **SQL injection prevention**: Pattern detection and sanitization
- [x] **XSS protection**: Detection and removal of XSS content
- [x] **Request logging**: Comprehensive logging with security monitoring

## 🔧 Usage & Commands

```bash
# Run security audit
npm run security:audit

# Run security tests
npm run test:security

# Run full security check
npm run security:check

# Start server with all security features
npm run dev
```

## 🚀 Security Endpoints

- `GET /health` - Server health status
- `GET /security-status` - Current security feature status

## 🔒 Environment Variables Required

**Required for production:**
- `NODE_ENV=production`
- `JWT_SECRET` (strong, random secret)
- `SESSION_SECRET` (strong, random secret)
- `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` (comma-separated list of allowed domains)

**Recommended:**
- `LOG_LEVEL=info`
- `LOG_TO_FILE=true`
- `LOG_FILE_PATH=./logs/security.log`

## 🧪 Testing

The implementation includes comprehensive security tests covering:
- Rate limiting behavior
- CORS policy enforcement
- Security header verification
- Input validation and sanitization
- XSS protection effectiveness
- SQL injection prevention
- Request logging functionality

## 📊 Security Monitoring

The system automatically:
- Detects and logs security events
- Identifies attack patterns
- Generates alerts for high-severity events
- Tracks suspicious IP addresses
- Monitors authentication failures

## 📚 Documentation

Complete security documentation is available in `docs/SECURITY.md` including:
- Implementation details
- Configuration options
- Deployment considerations
- Monitoring and alerting
- Future enhancement suggestions

## 🔐 Security Best Practices

This implementation follows industry security best practices:
- **Defense in Depth**: Multiple layers of security controls
- **Principle of Least Privilege**: Minimal required permissions
- **Fail Securely**: Secure defaults when errors occur
- **Input Validation**: Validate all inputs at multiple layers
- **Output Encoding**: Encode all outputs to prevent injection
- **Logging and Monitoring**: Comprehensive security logging
- **Regular Auditing**: Automated security audit script

## 🚨 Breaking Changes

- New security middleware may affect existing API behavior
- Stricter CORS policies may require frontend configuration
- Rate limiting may impact high-frequency API usage
- Request logging adds minimal overhead to all requests

## 📋 Checklist

- [x] Security middleware implemented
- [x] Configuration files created
- [x] Tests written and passing
- [x] Documentation updated
- [x] Environment variables documented
- [x] Security audit script created
- [x] Integration with GraphQL server completed
- [x] Package scripts updated

## 🔗 Related Issues

- **Closes #11** - [Security] Implement API rate limiting and security enhancements

---

**Security is a continuous process.** This implementation provides a strong foundation for API security and should be regularly reviewed and updated based on emerging threats and security best practices.

Commit message:

feat: Implement cross-chain proof verification
- Add comprehensive cross-chain proof verification system
- Support Ethereum, Polygon, and BSC chains
- Implement secure bridge contracts with gas optimization
- Add atomic swap functionality for trustless exchanges
- Create React components for cross-chain interface
- Add comprehensive test coverage

Closes #18

PR_DESCRIPTION.md, after:

# Pull Request: Cross-Chain Proof Verification Implementation

## Summary
This PR implements a comprehensive cross-chain proof verification system for the Verinode project, enabling secure and efficient cross-chain operations across Ethereum, Polygon, and BSC.

## 🛡️ Security Features Implemented

### Rate Limiting
- **Multi-tier rate limiting** with different limits for API, auth, GraphQL, and file upload endpoints
- **IP-based tracking** with X-Forwarded-For support
- **Proper 429 responses** with retry information and rate limit headers
- **Configurable windows** and limits per endpoint type

### Input Validation & Sanitization
- **Custom validation system** without external dependencies
- **Built-in validation rules** for common fields (email, username, password)
- **Automatic request sanitization** for body, query, and parameters
- **Content-Type validation** and payload size limits (10MB default)

### CORS Configuration
- **Environment-specific policies** (development vs production)
- **Origin whitelisting** with configurable allowed domains
- **Strict CORS mode** for sensitive endpoints
- **Proper preflight handling**

### Security Headers
- **Comprehensive header set** including CSP, HSTS, XSS protection
- **Frame protection** with X-Frame-Options: DENY
- **Content-Type protection** with nosniff
- **Permissions policy** restricting browser features
- **Referrer policy** for privacy protection

### Request Logging & Monitoring
- **Security event detection** (XSS, SQL injection, suspicious patterns)
- **IP-based monitoring** and attack pattern recognition
- **Unique request tracking** with IDs for audit trails
- **Security alerting** for high-severity events
- **Configurable log retention** and rotation

### XSS & Injection Protection
- **XSS pattern detection** with comprehensive regex patterns
- **HTML sanitization** removing dangerous elements
- **SQL injection prevention** with character escaping
- **Output encoding** for all responses
- **Recursive object sanitization**

## 📁 Files Added/Modified

### New Security Middleware
- `src/middleware/rateLimiter.ts` - Advanced rate limiting implementation
- `src/middleware/inputValidation.ts` - Custom validation system
- `src/middleware/corsConfig.ts` - Environment-aware CORS policies
- `src/middleware/securityHeaders.ts` - Comprehensive security headers
- `src/middleware/requestLogger.ts` - Security monitoring and logging

### Security Utilities
- `src/utils/inputSanitization.ts` - Input cleaning and sanitization
- `src/utils/xssProtection.ts` - XSS detection and prevention

### Infrastructure & Configuration
- `config/securityConfig.js` - Centralized security configuration
- `scripts/securityAudit.js` - Automated security audit tool

### Integration & Testing
- `src/graphql/server.ts` - Updated with full security middleware stack
- `src/test/security.test.ts` - Comprehensive security test suite
- `package.json` - Added security scripts and test dependencies
- `docs/SECURITY.md` - Complete security documentation

## ✅ Acceptance Criteria Met

- [x] **Rate limiting**: Returns 429 status when limits exceeded
- [x] **Input validation**: Malicious input is sanitized and rejected  
- [x] **CORS policy**: Properly enforced based on environment
- [x] **Security headers**: All recommended headers present
- [x] **Attack detection**: Logged and blocked automatically
- [x] **SQL injection prevention**: Pattern detection and sanitization
- [x] **XSS protection**: Detection and removal of XSS content
- [x] **Request logging**: Comprehensive logging with security monitoring

## 🔧 Usage & Commands

```bash
# Run security audit
npm run security:audit

# Run security tests
npm run test:security

# Run full security check
npm run security:check

# Start server with all security features
npm run dev
```

## 🚀 Security Endpoints

- `GET /health` - Server health status
- `GET /security-status` - Current security feature status

## 🔒 Environment Variables Required

**Required for production:**
- `NODE_ENV=production`
- `JWT_SECRET` (strong, random secret)
- `SESSION_SECRET` (strong, random secret)
- `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` (comma-separated list of allowed domains)

**Recommended:**
- `LOG_LEVEL=info`
- `LOG_TO_FILE=true`
- `LOG_FILE_PATH=./logs/security.log`

## 🧪 Testing

The implementation includes comprehensive security tests covering:
- Rate limiting behavior
- CORS policy enforcement
- Security header verification
- Input validation and sanitization
- XSS protection effectiveness
- SQL injection prevention
- Request logging functionality

## 📊 Security Monitoring

The system automatically:
- Detects and logs security events
- Identifies attack patterns
- Generates alerts for high-severity events
- Tracks suspicious IP addresses
- Monitors authentication failures

## 📚 Documentation

Complete security documentation is available in `docs/SECURITY.md` including:
- Implementation details
- Configuration options
- Deployment considerations
- Monitoring and alerting
- Future enhancement suggestions

## 🔐 Security Best Practices

This implementation follows industry security best practices:
- **Defense in Depth**: Multiple layers of security controls
- **Principle of Least Privilege**: Minimal required permissions
- **Fail Securely**: Secure defaults when errors occur
- **Input Validation**: Validate all inputs at multiple layers
- **Output Encoding**: Encode all outputs to prevent injection
- **Logging and Monitoring**: Comprehensive security logging
- **Regular Auditing**: Automated security audit script

## 🚨 Breaking Changes

- New security middleware may affect existing API behavior
- Stricter CORS policies may require frontend configuration
- Rate limiting may impact high-frequency API usage
- Request logging adds minimal overhead to all requests

## 📋 Checklist

- [x] Security middleware implemented
- [x] Configuration files created
- [x] Tests written and passing
- [x] Documentation updated
- [x] Environment variables documented
- [x] Security audit script created
- [x] Integration with GraphQL server completed
- [x] Package scripts updated

## 🔗 Related Issues

- **Closes #11** - [Security] Implement API rate limiting and security enhancements

---

**Security is a continuous process.** This implementation provides a strong foundation for API security and should be regularly reviewed and updated based on emerging threats and security best practices.
